

ABSTRACT

It is no longer news that consumers all over the world now believe and rely on technology to carry out daily tasks or to make life easier. With this in mind business owners and vendors in general are looking for more innovative ways to harness the power of technology to deliver products and services at the customers fingertips. The housing sector is yet to fully tap into this trend.. In truth there are numerous online soultions out there right now but the aim of this paper to to implement a solution that facilitates the process of renting an apartment for a few days or a year all with the click of a button. 

To achieve this, the goal is to develop a apartment rental system that simplifies the process of getting an apartment (customer) and also makes posting an apartment for rent stress free (vendor). In a bid to fully understand the problem scope, I did some research on the current solutions already out there. I also prepared questionnaires and submitted them to a number of customers and apartment owners. From the information gathered I realized that some bit of paperwork is still involved though the systems are digital. Most of the said paperwork was done manually. Papers can easily get damaged or lost, leading to loss of data. It also costs more money to keep on buying files to store your records. This makes retrieving imformation become more stressful and less efficient, as one would have to sift through a lot of files just to find what was being searched for. 

With this in mind, I decided to develop a apartment rental system that can solve all the problems faced with the current solutions out there. This system was bullt withuser experience in mind, it comes with a friendly UI (user interface) and an effective backend.

INTRODUCTION

Due to the wide embrace of digital products and services by consumers all over the world, service providers and businesses from all walks of life are constantly looking for ways to use technology to offer better products and services to customers anywhere in the world. The housing industry is no different. This chapter will provide a brief overview of the background of study, problem scope, objectives and deliverables of this project.

Background of Study
Housing plays a huge role in the effificiency and general well being of anyone. If one does not have a comfortable and well furnished house, one may not be fully productive in his or her daily activities. This is one of the reasons why some professionals prefer to lodge in a fancy hotel for some days or weeks just to work on a project. It could be that the hotel room has more facilities, or it cloud also be that the hotel environment is preferable. Either way, most people are looking for a home away from home just for a while, and this project aims at delivering a solution to suit their needs, be it professional or for leisure.

The focus of this project is to provide a platform for customers to rent an apartment for a period of time (ranging from 1 night to 1 year) and for owners to post apartments for rent. The solutions currently being offered to customers only focus on the ones who want to rent apartments on a yearly basis. This project focuses on the short term rentals, research has shown that customers all over the world want something like this. A customer can sign up on the platform, rent an apartment, make payment and check in all from the comfort of a mobile phone or laptop. Apartment owners can also post apartments, receive payments, chat with guests and also offer extra services without any for  of physical presence.

Problem Statement
1) Apartment owners still have to deal with some paperwork, which can be ineffective and time consuming.
2) Processing information via paperwork and files costs a lot more money.
3) The apartment rental systems today only focus on the long term rentals.

Objectives
To develop a system that:
1) Allows users to sign up and provide the required information: Profile information, Payment information, etc
2) Allows users to browse through available apartments using various search filters.
3) Allows users to rent an apartment and make payment online.
4) Allows users to communicate with hosts and vice versa via private chat
5) Allows hosts to post apartments for rent.
6) Allows hosts to manage apartments and access vital information about them.


Technologies Used
The system is designed using a combination of HTML and Javascript for the front end (user interface) and PHP (Laravel framework) to handle business logic. 
